Aoi, Naoya, you seem to be confused.
I am surprised. I see character lunch boxes everywhere,
but are they illegal?
Enjoying your work with those close to you is fine
without uploading it to social media.
However, uploading to social media, if an unspecified person
or a large number of people can view it,
is an infringement of the public transmission right,
so you must be very careful in handling your copyrighted work.
It’s illegal even if I make my lunch!
Aoi, copyright arises for the creative expression of ideas
and feelings, right?
Even if you made the lunch box itself and what is expressed in it
is a protected copyrighted work, it is an infringement.
Even if you expressed it in your lunch box, it is no different
than drawing a character’s portrait.
In other words, you have reproduced it, which infringes
the reproduction right.
Therefore, you should not upload it to social media and
transmit it publicly.
I see. I think the person who made it just wanted people to see it
because it was well made but that is still unacceptable.
But now I think there are images of character lunch boxes on the
internet in many places. Aren’t they subject to punishment?
That depends on the situation.
The Copyright Law provides for penalties.
Aoi, have you ever seen the anti-voyeurism or illegal
downloading video shown before a movie theater screening?
I’ve seen it. The one with a fine of up to 10 million yen or
imprisonment of up to 10 years, right?
I thought it was a severe penalty. Is it the same this time?
Yes. Under the Copyright Law, the same penalties apply: a fine of
up to 10 million yen, imprisonment for up to 10 years, or both.
However, whether or not such penalties are applied depends on
the copyright owners’ policy.
The policy of the copyright owners?
It’s about the offence subject to complaint.
Yes, that’s right. A private prosecution can only be brought
if the victim, in this case, the copyright owner, files a complaint.
In other words, in a case like this, if the copyright owner does not
intend to seek punishment, prosecutors will not be charged
with a criminal offense.
However, it still violates the Copyright Law,
and we must be cautious not to let that happen.
Also, in some malicious cases, such as on pirate sites,
it may be a non-criminal offense instead of a custodial offense.
If you are concerned about this,
check back later for more information.
Yes, I understand.
In this case, you violate the Copyright Law
with the character lunch box but are not fined or imprisoned.
How should we think about that?
Doesn’t the fact that you don’t say anything mean that
the copyright owner is allowing you to do so?
That would be naive, I would say. First, the basic premise is that
you should use the work to the extent that it does not infringe
on copyright.
We do not know whether the copyright owner is tacitly approving
of the use, whether they are not thinking of going to court,
or whether they are thinking of going to court,
depending on the future situation.
So, regarding copyrighted character lunch boxes, please do not upload them to social media. Enjoy them only with a few people around you.
As long as you do so, there is no problem since it constitutes a reproduction for private use, which is stipulated in the limitations of copyright.
By the way,
a teacher once told me that he was worried that a profile icon
he zweeted might be in violation of the Copyright Law.
What? I used to use an icon of my favorite anime character.
Was that no good?
I was so happy when I found someone with the same icon
as my favorite character, and we followed each other.
I know some people use them as profile icons on social media.
However, if you have used a cut-out image of an animated
cartoon as an icon without obtaining permission,
you are infringing copyright.
You may want to check with the official website, as they may
provide icons that have been licensed for use on social media.
Similarly, uploading a capture of a TV screen directly to social
media is an infringement of copyright.
Still, a link such as the URL of an official website is acceptable.
Learn what is good and what is not
and how to use it copyright-consciously.
However, copyright is still very complicated and challenging.
With everyone now using social media, it has become necessary
for everyone to be aware of the right of public transmission
among copyrights.
The Copyright Law aims to contribute to the development of
culture by striking a balance between the protection
of copyright owners’ rights and fair exploitation.
In cases such as this one, it is essential to properly understand
exactly what to use and how to use the work
so that our desire to support it as fans does not lead
to copyright infringement of our precious works.
Yes, understood.